# Contributing to jsrepo

Looking to contribute to jsrepo? Great! You're in the right place. This guide will help you get started.

## AI Assistance Notice

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> If you are using **any kind of AI assistance** to contribute to jsrepo,
> it must be disclosed in the pull request.

If you are using any kind of AI assistance while contributing to jsrepo,
**this must be disclosed in the pull request**, along with the extent to
which AI assistance was used (e.g. docs only vs. code generation).
If PR responses are being generated by an AI, disclose that as well.
As a small exception, trivial tab-completion doesn't need to be disclosed,
so long as it is limited to single keywords or short phrases.

An example disclosure:

> This PR was written primarily by Claude Code.

Or a more detailed disclosure:

> I consulted ChatGPT to understand the codebase but the solution
> was fully authored manually by myself.

Failure to disclose this is first and foremost rude to the human operators
on the other end of the pull request, but it also makes it difficult to
determine how much scrutiny to apply to the contribution.

When using AI assistance, we expect contributors to understand the code
that is produced and be able to answer critical questions about it. It
isn't a maintainers job to review a PR so broken that it requires
significant rework to be acceptable.

Please be respectful to maintainers and disclose AI assistance.

## Development

First install dependencies:

```sh
pnpm install
```

Then run the dev script:

```sh
pnpm dev
```

This will start the development server and watch for changes to packages.

The docs are available at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

To run the tests, run the following command:

```sh
pnpm test
```

To test jsrepo manually you can use the playground projects in the [`playground/`](./playground/) directory.

### Project Structure

- `packages/jsrepo` - jsrepo CLI
- `packages/mcp` - MCP server for jsrepo
- `playground/` - Playground projects to manually test jsrepo
- `apps/docs` - Contains the documentation hosted at [https://jsrepo.dev](https://jsrepo.dev).

## Before opening a PR

### Open an issue

If your PR is more than a one line fix please open an issue first to discuss the changes you want to make.

### Checklist

- Run `pnpm format`
- Run `pnpm lint` (Ensure passing)
- Run `pnpm check` (Ensure passing)
- Run `pnpm test` (Ensure passing)
- Run `pnpm changeset` and add a changeset for your changes if it effects any of the released packages (under packages/*)